Introduction One Saturday afternoon Tom wanted to have an adventure because he didn’t want to think about Injun Joe.
He went to Huck and said, “I’m going to look for treasure.
He has a lot of adventures at home, at school, and with his friends.
He has one adventure in a cave.
Do you want to come with me?” Tom Sawyer loves adventures.
But why is he there?
What does he see in the cave?
And why is he afraid?
Young Samuel lived in Hannibal, Missouri, a small town on the Mississippi River.
He loved the river and he liked watching the big boats on it.
Mark Twain (1835-1910) is a famous American writer.
Samuel loved adventures.
He worked on boats on the Mississippi River for two years.
His name was Samuel Clemens.
Then he went to Nevada.
He looked for treasure, but he didn’t find it.
He worked for a newspaper there.
His stories were in the name of Mark Twain, and people loved them.
Later, Samuel lived in New York.
His book The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (1876) is about a young boy in a small town in the 1800s.
Huck Finn is his friend.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (1884) is about Huck’s adventures.
These two books are very famous.
Today, many people visit Hannibal because they want to see Mark Twain’s home and the Mark Twain Cave, the cave in The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
iii Chapter 1 The Fence Tom Sawyer lived with his aunt because his mother and father were dead.
Tom didn’t like going to school, and he didn’t like working.
He liked playing and having adventures.
One Friday, he didn’t go to school—he went to the river.
Aunt Polly was angry.
“You’re a bad boy!” she said.
“Tomorrow you can’t play with your friends because you didn’t go to school today.
Tomorrow you’re going to work for me.
You can paint the fence.” Saturday morning, Tom was not happy, but he started to paint the fence.
His friend Jim was in the street.
Tom asked him, “Do you want to paint?” Jim said, “No, I can’t.
I’m going to get water.” Then Ben came to Tom’s house.
He watched Tom and said, “I’m going to swim today.
You can’t swim because you’re working.” Tom said, “This isn’t work.
I like painting.” “Can I paint, too?” Ben asked.
“Aunt Polly asked me because I’m a very good painter.” Ben said, “I’m a good painter, too.
“No, you can’t,” Tom answered.
Please, can I paint?
I have some fruit.
Do you want it?” OK,” Tom said.
“Give me the fruit.
Then you can paint.” Ben started to paint the fence.
Later, many boys came to Tom’s house.
They watched Ben, and they wanted to paint, too.
Tom said, “Give me some food and you can paint.” 1 Tom stayed in the yard, and the boys painted.
Tom stayed in the yard, and the boys painted.
They painted the fence three times.
It was beautiful and white.
Tom went into the house.
“Aunt Polly, can I play now?” he asked.
Aunt Polly was surprised.
“Did you paint the fence?” she asked.
Aunt Polly went to the yard and looked at the fence.
“Yes, I did,” Tom answered.
She was very surprised and very happy.
“It’s beautiful!” she said.
“Yes, you can play now.” Tom walked to his friend Joe Harper’s house and played with his friends there.
There was a new girl in one yard.
Then he walked home again.
She had yellow hair and blue eyes.
She was beautiful.
Tom wanted to talk to her, but she didn’t see him.
She went into her house.
Tom waited, but she didn’t come out again.
Chapter 2 In the Graveyard One morning before school, Tom’s friend Huck Finn waited for him in the street.
Huck didn’t have a home, and he never went to school.
People in the town didn’t like him.
But Tom liked Huck.
Huck said, “Let’s have an adventure.” “What can we do on our adventure?” Tom asked.
“Let’s go to the graveyard at night—at twelve o’clock!” Huck answered.
‘That’s a good adventure,” Tom said.
“Let’s meet at eleven o’clock.” Then Tom went to school, but he was late.
He asked, “Why are you late again?” 3 “I’m late because I talked to Huck Finn,” Tom said.
The teacher was angry.
Then the teacher was very angry.
“Sit with the girls,” he said to Tom.
Tom sat near the beautiful new girl.
He was happy.
He looked at her.
“What’s your name?” he asked.
“Becky,” she answered.
Tom smiled and said, “My name’s Tom.” The teacher was angry again.
“Tom Sawyer, stop talking!
Tom went to his place.
Go to your place now,” he said.
At twelve o’clock Tom and Becky didn’t go home.
They stayed in the school yard and talked.
Tom said, “I love you.
Do you love me?” “Yes,” Becky answered.
“Good,” Tom said.
“Then you’re going to walk to school with me every day.
Amy always walked with me.” “Amy!” Becky said angrily.
“Do you love her?” “No,” Tom answered.
“I love you now.
Do you want to walk with me?” But Becky was angry with Tom.
She walked away and didn’t answer.
Tom was unhappy.
He didn’t go to school in the afternoon.
That night Tom went to bed at nine o’clock, but he didn’t sleep.
At eleven o’clock he went out his bedroom window to the yard.
Huck was there.
They walked to the graveyard.
They stopped behind some big trees and talked quietly.
Suddenly, there was a noise.
Three men came into the graveyard—the doctor, Muff Potter, and Injun Joe.
Injun Joe and the doctor talked angrily.
Then Injun Joe 4 Then Injun Joe killed the doctor with a knife.
Tom and Huck watched.
killed the doctor with a knife.
Then they went away quickly because they were afraid.
They went to Tom’s yard.
Huck said, “We can’t talk about this.
Injun Joe can find us and kill us, too.” “That’s right,” Tom said.
“We can’t talk about it.” Tom went in his bedroom window.
He went to bed, but he didn’t sleep well.
Tom and Huck didn’t talk to their friends or Aunt Polly about that night because they were afraid of Injun Joe.
Later, some men went to Muff Potter and said, “You’re a bad man.
You killed the doctor.” Chapter 3 A Bad Day Becky was sick and didn’t go to school for many days.
Tom was very sad.
One morning, he said to Aunt Polly, “I’m very sick, and I want to stay home from school.” Aunt Polly said, “Here’s some medicine.
Take this and you can get well quickly.” But Tom didn’t like the medicine.
Peter, the cat, came into the room and looked at Tom.
“Peter!” Tom said.
”Have some medicine!” Peter had some medicine.
He didn’t like it!
He went quickly out the open window and into the yard.
Aunt Polly watched Peter.
“Why did you do that, Tom?” she asked angrily.
“You’re a very bad boy!
Go to school now.” Tom arrived at school early and he waited for Becky at the school fence.
She arrived early, too, but she didn’t 6 Peter had some medicine.
He didn’t like it!
look at Tom.
She went into school.
He didn’t want to go to school now.
Tom walked away.
He was sad, too, because his mother was angry with him.
The two boys walked and talked.
Joe Harper was near the school.
Tom said, “Let’s run away.” “Yes, let’s!” Joe said.
He was very sad.
The two boys went to the river.
Huck Finn was there.
Tom and Joe said, “We’re going to run away.
Do you want to come with us?” “Yes,” Huck answered.
“Let’s go across the river.
We can have a good adventure there.” The boys went home because they wanted to get food for their adventure.
Chapter 4 Across the River Tom, Joe, and Huck went to the river.
There was a small boat there.
The boys went across the river in the small boat.
They said, “This is a good place because we can play all day.
There’s no school here.” They played and then went to sleep.
In the morning, the boys were happy again.
They said, “Let’s stay here for a long time.” In the afternoon, they played near the river again.
Suddenly, there was a noise from a big boat on the river.
The boys stopped playing and watched the boat.
“Listen,” Tom said.
“The men on the boat are talking about us.” 8 The boys stopped playing and watched the boat.
The boys listened quietly.
A man said, “The boys are in the river.
They’re dead.” Tom said, “Those men are looking for us in the river.
We’re here, but they don’t know that.” That night, the boys were sad.
Huck and Joe went to sleep, but Tom didn’t sleep.
He quietly went in his bedroom window.
Then he went under his bed and stayed there.
He went home in the small boat.
Aunt Polly and her friends came into his room.
Aunt Polly said to her friends, “Tom was a good boy, and I loved him.
Now he’s dead, and I’m very sad.” Tom wanted to say, “I’m not dead.” But he stayed quiet.
Aunt Polly went to sleep.
Tom went out the window very quietly and went back across the river.
In the morning, Joe and Huck said, “We’re not happy here now.
We want to go home.” Tom said, “Let’s go home on Sunday.
We can go to church.
People are going to be very surprised!” Sunday morning, many children were at church.
They talked about the three boys.
They were sad because their friends were dead.
Becky was sad, too.
Suddenly, the three boys walked into the church.
Chapter 5 At School Monday morning, Tom went to school.
People were very surprised, but they were very happy, too.
The children wanted to hear about his adventure, and Tom liked 10 talking about it.
Becky wanted to talk to Tom, but he didn’t look at her.
Then Tom talked to Amy.
Becky watched him and she was angry.
She said to her friends, “I’m going to have an adventure day.
You can come on my adventure.” But she didn’t ask Tom.
Later in the morning, Tom talked to Amy again.
Becky talked to her friend Alfred and looked at a picture-book with him.
Tom watched them and he was angry with Becky.
In the afternoon, Tom waited for Becky at the school fence.
He said, “I’m sorry.” But Becky didn’t listen to him.
She walked into the school room.
The teacher’s new book was on his table.
This book wasn’t for children, but Becky wanted to look at it.
She opened the book quietly and looked at the pictures.
Suddenly, Tom came into the room.
Becky was surprised.
She closed the book quickly, and it tore.
Then the children and the teacher came into the room and went to their places.
Becky was angry with Tom and quickly went out of the room.
The teacher looked at his book.
“Who did this?
Who tore my book?” he asked angrily.
The room was very quiet.
The teacher started to ask every child, “Did you do this?” They answered, “No, I didn’t.” Then he looked at Becky “Becky, did you do this?” 11 “I did it.
I tore your book.” Tom wanted to help her.
Suddenly he said, “I did it.
I tore your book.” “Tom Sawyer, you’re a very bad boy.
Stay here after school!” the teacher said angrily.
At five o’clock Tom started to walk home.
Becky waited for him at the school fence.
“You’re a very good friend,” she said.
Tom smiled at her and they walked home.
Chapter 6 The Trial Summer vacation started, and Becky went away with her family.
Tom was unhappy.
Then Muff Potter’s trial started.
Tom and Huck remembered the night in the graveyard.
They were afraid of Injun Joe again.
“No, I didn’t,” Huck answered.
“Did you talk about the night in the graveyard?” Tom asked Huck.
“Did you?” “No,” Tom answered.
I’m sorry about Muff Potter.
He’s always friendly to us.
He didn’t kill the doctor.
I want to help him.” “Let’s take some food to him,” Huck said.
The boys visited Muff Potter.
“Here’s some food,” they said.
Muff Potter said, “Thank you.
You’re good boys.” Tom and Huck went to the trial and listened for two days.
Tom didn’t sleep well at night because he wanted to help Muff Potter.
On day three of the trial Tom talked.
13 A man asked him, “Where were you on the night of June 17th?” “I was in the graveyard,” Tom answered.
“Did you see any people there?” the man asked: “Yes.
Injun Joe, the doctor, and Muff Potter were there.
They didn’t see me because I was behind some big trees.” “What did you see?” the man asked.
“Injun Joe and the doctor talked angrily,” Tom answered.
“Then Injun Joe killed the doctor with his knife.
Muff Potter didn’t do it.” The people at the trial were surprised.
Injun Joe quickly went out of the building.
Tom and Huck were very afraid.
Tom said, “Now Injun Joe knows about us.
Tom liked talking about it.
He can kill us, too.” Many people wanted to hear about the boys’ adventure in the graveyard.
He was happy, too, because he helped Muff Potter.
But he didn’t sleep well because he was afraid of Injun Joe.
Chapter 7 Injun Joe’s Treasure One Saturday afternoon, Tom wanted to have an adventure because he didn’t want to think about Injun Joe.
He went to Huck and said, “I’m going to look for treasure.
Do you want to come with me?” Huck always liked an adventure.
“Oh, yes,” he said.
“Where can we look?” 14 “Let’s start looking in the old house near Mrs.
Douglas’s house.
Old houses are good places for treasure,” Tom answered.
The boys went to the old house.
They wanted to look at every room.
First they went into the kitchen, and then they went into the bedroom.
Suddenly, two men came into the kitchen—Injun Joe and his friend.
The boys were afraid and stayed in the bedroom very quietly.
Injun Joe walked across the kitchen.
“We can put our money here,” he said to his friend.
He started to dig under the floor with his knife.
“I’m going to get it out.” There was a big box under the floor.
“What’s this?” Injun Joe said.
There was a lot of money in the box.
He opened it with his knife.
“Look at that money!” his friend said.
“Let’s go now.
We can come back and get it tomorrow.” “No,” Injun Joe said.
We can take it to that place.
“We’re going to take it with us now.
Injun Joe talked quietly to his friend.
You know—the place under the cross.” Then the men went out of the house.
The boys listened and were afraid.
Tom said, “Did you hear that?
He wants to kill us.” They went out of the house quietly and went home.
The boys were afraid of Injun Joe, but they wanted to find his treasure.
They watched his house every night, but they didn’t see Injun Joe or his treasure.
15 There was a lot of money in the box.
Chapter 8 Becky’s Adventure Day In August Becky’s family came back from their vacation.
Becky’s adventure day was Saturday.
Tom was very happy and he didn’t think about Injun Joe’s treasure.
Her mother said, “You can sleep at Susy Harper’s house after your adventure.’ “Good,” Becky said.
Becky and her friends went on the river on a big boat.
The boat went down the river and across it.
Then it stopped.
The children went out of the boat and played games near the river.
In the afternoon one boy asked, “Who wants to go to the big cave?” The children went to the cave.
It was dark and cold there, but they played games.
In the evening they went back to the boat and went home.
Sunday morning, Becky’s mother and Aunt Polly talked to Mrs.
Harper at church.
Becky’s mother asked, “Where’s my Becky?
Did she sleep at your house?” “No, she didn’t,” Mrs.
Harper answered.
“I didn’t see her.” Aunt Polly said, “My Tom didn’t come home.
Did he stay at your house?” “No, he didn’t,” Mrs.
Harper answered.
Then Aunt Polly and Becky’s mother asked the children, “Did Tom and Becky come home?
Did you see them on the boat?” The children answered, “No, we didn’t see them, but it was dark.” Then a boy said, “Maybe they’re in the cave!” 17 Two hundred men looked for Tom and Becky in the cave.
They looked for three days, but they didn’t find them.
People in the town were very sad.
Chapter 9 Huck’s Adventure Huck didn’t go on Becky’s adventure.
He stayed home and watched Injun Joe’s house that night.
At eleven o’clock Injun Joe and his friend came out and walked down the street.
There was a box in his friend’s hands.
Huck said quietly, “Maybe that’s the treasure box.” He went after the two men.
They walked to Mrs.
Douglas’s house and stopped in her yard.
Huck stayed behind some small trees.
The men talked, and Huck listened to them.
Injun Joe was angry.
“I want to kill her,” he said to his friend.
Douglas was bad to me.
He’s dead now, but I remember.” “’There are a lot of lights in the house.
Maybe her friends are visiting,” Injun Joe’s friend said.
“We can come back tomorrow.” “No,” Injun Joe said.
“Let’s wait now.” Huck liked Mrs.
Douglas because she was always good to him.
He wanted to help her.
He quietly walked away and then he started to run to Mr.
Jones’s house.
Jones opened the door.
“What do you want?” he asked Huck.
“Injun Joe and his friend are in Mrs.
Douglas’s yard,” Huck said.
“They want to kill her.
Can you go there and help Mrs.
Douglas?” 18 The men talked, and Huck listened to them.
My sons and I can go there,” Mr.
Jones answered.
“You can go home.” In the morning, Huck went back to Mr.
Jones’s house.
“How’s Mrs.
Douglas?” he asked.
“She’s OK,” Mr.
Jones answered.
“The men went away because we arrived.” “Good,” Huck said.
But he was afraid of Injun Joe.
“Please don’t say my name to Mrs.
Douglas.” Mr.
Jones looked at him, and then he said, “You aren’t well.
Go and sleep in my bedroom.” Later, Mrs.
Douglas visited Mr.
“You helped me yesterday night.
Thank you,” she said.
“You’re a good man.” Mr.
Jones said, “We didn’t know about the men in your yard.
A boy was there and he wanted to help you.
He came here, but I can’t say his name.” Mr.
Jones and Mrs.
Douglas went to church.
People there talked about Tom and Becky.
Jones and his sons went to the cave with the men, but on Monday morning they went home.
Huck was in bed and was very sick.
The men went back to the cave, but Mrs.
Douglas stayed with Huck.
Chapter 10 In the Cave Saturday, Tom and Becky walked and played in the cave.
Then they stopped near some water.
“What time is it?” Becky asked.
“I don’t know,” Tom said.
“Let’s go back now” 20 The two children walked and walked.
But they didn’t find the door to the cave.
Becky was afraid.
She wanted to sit down and eat.
“Maybe they’re looking for us now,” she said.
“Here’s some food,” Tom said.
“Eat this and wait here.
I’m going to look for the door.” Tom walked and walked.
But he didn’t find the cave door.
Suddenly, there was a man near him.
Tom was afraid, but he stayed quiet.
He looked at the man.
It was Injun Joe!
Tom was very afraid and he made a noise.
Injun Joe went away quickly.
Tom went back to Becky, but he didn’t talk to her about Injun Joe.
They were in the cave for three days.
Tuesday, Becky didn’t want to walk.
Again Tom said, “Stay here.
I’m going to look for the door.” This time he went to a new place.
There was light there.
He went to the light.
It came from a small door in the cave.
Tom went out of the cave.
Then he went back to Becky.
“Come with me,” he said.
“We can go out of the cave now.” Tom and Becky went out of the cave.
They were very happy.
They went to the river and waited there.
Some men in a small boat came to them.
Tom said, “We want to go home.
Can you help us?” The men answered, “Yes.
We can take you home.” Tom and Becky went in the boat with the men.
They arrived home very late Tuesday night, and people in the town were very happy.
Tom talked all night about their adventure in the cave.
21 Tom went out of the cave.
Chapter 11 In the Cave Again Tom and Becky stayed home for many days.
Then, two weeks after their adventure, Tom visited Becky and talked to her father.
Thatcher said, “You’re a very good boy, Tom.
Thank you.
You helped Becky in the cave.
People can’t go into it now because it has a new big door.” “But Injun Joe’s living in the cave!” Tom said.
Some men went down the river to the cave.
Tom went with them.
They opened the new door.
Injun Joe was there, but he was dead.
Tom wanted to talk to Huck.
Later in the week he went to Mr.
Jones’s house.
The two boys talked about their adventures.
“The money isn’t in Injun Joe’s house,” Tom said.
“It’s in the cave!
I know, because Injun Joe was there.
Let’s get it!” Huck was afraid.
“But maybe we can’t find it.” “I can find it again,” Tom said.
“I know about a small door at the back of the cave.
Becky and I came out there.
We can go in that door, and I can find Injun Joe’s treasure.” “OK,” Huck said.
“Let’s go today.” That afternoon the boys went in a small boat to the back of the cave.
Tom walked first, and Huck went after him.
They walked and walked.
Then Tom said, “This is the right place!
Injun Joe was here.” The boys looked for a good place for treasure.
Suddenly, Tom said, “Look!
There’s a cross!
Injun Joe said, ’under the cross.’ Let’s look there!” 23 “Look!
It’s the treasure box!” The boys went to the place with the cross.
Tom said, “I’m going to dig here with my knife ...
It’s the treasure box!
Let’s get it out now.
The treasure’s ours!” “This box is very heavy,” Huck said.
“We can’t take it with us.” “I have some small bags,” Tom said.
“We can put the money in them and take it home.” The boys went out of the cave with the money.
Chapter 12 At Mrs.
Douglas’s House Tom said, “Let’s take the money to the old house near Mrs.
Douglas’s house.
That’s a good place for it.” They started to walk to the old house.
Jones was in Mrs.
Douglas’s yard.
He called to the boys.
“A lot of people are waiting for you.
Come with me,” he said.
They went into Mrs.
Douglas’s house.
“Hello, boys,” Mrs.
Douglas said.
“Come with me.” Tom and Huck went with her to a bedroom.
There were new shirts and jeans on the bed.
“Wash your hands and faces and put on these shirts and jeans,” Mrs.
Douglas said.
“Then come to the big room.” The boys went to the room.
A lot of people were there.
Douglas said, “First I want to say ‘thank you’ to Mr.
Jones and his sons.
They helped me.
They’re very good people.” “Huck helped, too,” Mr.
Jones said.
‘Thank you, too, Huck,” Mrs.
Douglas said.
“You’re a good boy, and I like you.
I want to give you a home and some money.” 25 “But Huck has a lot of money!” Tom said.
He went to the bedroom and came back with the bags of money.
“We have this money from the cave There’s a lot of money in them, and it’s ours now.” There was $12,000 in the bags.
The people were very surprised.
They asked about the boys’ adventure.
Chapter 13 Huck’s New Home Huck lived in the big house with Mrs.
He was a new person.
He washed every day, and he went to school and church.
But he wasn’t happy.
He stayed there for three weeks, and then he ran away.
Tom went to Huck.
“Why did you run away?” Huck answered, “Mrs.
Douglas is a good woman.
I like her, but I can’t live with her.
I don’t like washing every day, and I don’t like going to school and church.
I don’t want to have a lot of money.
But I want to be your friend.
OK?” “No,” Tom said, “I can’t be your friend, because the boys at school don’t want to play with you.
We’re thinking about a lot of new adventures.
Please live with Mrs.
Douglas and come to school.
Then the boys at school can play with you.” “I want to be your friend,” Huck said, “and I want to have adventures with you and the boys at school.
Maybe I can live with Mrs.
I don’t know, but I’m going to try it again for a month.” “Good,” Tom said.
“The boys are meeting later, at twelve o’clock at night.
You can come, too.” “Good!” Huck said.
Marcel is a French mouse.
He lives on a beautiful old boat in Paris.
(His home is under the kitchen floor.) He likes books, restaurants and old films.
He likes the opera, too.
One evening in June, Marcel finishes a detective story.
Then he goes to have dinner with some friends.
They live in the metro station at the Louvre.
After dinner, Marcel waits at the,station.
He sees two men standing next to him.
The tall one is reading a magazine, “Look,” he says, “here she is: ‘Opera star Miss ZazaDupont withher beautifulone million pound diamond ring — the White Star.’” “‘Her’ beautiful diamond ring?” The short man looks at the photo and laughs.
“Not after tonight,” he says.
2 Marcel’s mouth opens.
Are the men going to steal Zaza Dupont’s diamond?” He remembers an evening at the opera two weeks before.
The music.
The beautiful White Star on her finger.
Zaza’s green dress.
They can’t steal it!
The train comes and the men get on.
Marcel pulls down his hat and follows them.
Half an hour later he gets off again at La Mouette station.
Then he sees an old mouse.
But there are hundreds of people, and Marcel loses the two men.
“Excuse me,” he says.
“Do you know where Zaza Dupont lives?” But when Marcel finds Zaza’s house, it is too late.
“Yes — two men,” she is telling the police on the telephone.
“And they've got the White Star.” 4 At that moment Marcel hears a motor start.
“Where’s that coming from?” he thinks.
Then he sees something at the end of the road.
It's the thieves and they’re stealing a car!
It's them!
He runs across Zaza’s garden and down the street.
He can see the car’s number­plate.
It’s near.
Very near.
“Can I …?” he thinks, and he jumps.
Marcel sits on the number­plate.
“Good,” he thinks.
Then, after a second or two… “But what happens now?” The thieves drive across Paris very fast.
Marcel can hear them in the car.
They are laughing and talking.
But Marcel is not laughing.
He is very, very angry.
After half an hour the car stops next to a cafe.
In one corner there is a woman.
6 It is late and the cafe is quiet.
The thieves sit at her table.
Marcel sits under the table and listens.
“Have you got it?” the woman asks.
The tall man takes a box from his jacket.
Then he opens it.
“Look,” he says.
“Ahhh!” The woman puts a hand to her mouth.
“What a beautiful diamond!” “This is it,” thinks Marcel.
“This is the moment.” He bites the tall man’s leg very hard.
“Aiiieee!” The tall man throws up his arms.
“What’s that on the floor?” one waiter asks.
The box and the White Star fly across the room.
“I don’t know,” says another.
“Is it ...
No, it can’t be a diam…” But before he can finish, Marcel runs across the room.
Then he runs to the door.
He puts the White Star around his neck.
8 The thieves jump up and follow him.
Suddenly there are tables and chairs everywhere.
“What’s happening?” an old man asks.
“I don’t know,” his wife answers.
“Who can understand young people these days?” “Stop that mouse!” says the tall man.
“Shut the door!” says the short one.
But they are too late.
Marcel runs out of the cafe and does not look back.
9 After ten minutes he stops.
Marcel looks right and left.
There is nobody following him, but… where is he?
Then he sees a big, white church.
— the Sacré Coeur,” he thinks.
“Now I know where I am.” It is late and there are no metro trains, but Marcel is not tired.
He walks back to Zaza’s house.
When he gets there, she is asleep in bed.
10 There is a table next to the window.
On it Marcel can see lots of photographs, boxes and perfume bottles.
He runs across the floor and up one leg of the table.
“Now…” he thinks, “…it's time to take off the White Star.
In the morning Zaza is going to be very…” Then Marcel stops.
He cannot take the ring off.
He pulls and pulls, but nothing happens.
11 “Now what?”\ he thinks.
Then… “Of course!
Some soap!” He runs down the table leg and across the floor.
Zaza’s bathroom door is open.
Marcel goes in and looks up.
A soap­dish is above his head.
Ten seconds later he is sitting in it.
He puts some soap on his neck.
Then he closes his eyes and pulls again.
This time the diamond ring comes off!
12 In the morning Zaza finds the White Star.
It is on her bedroom table between two perfume bottles.
“But… I don’t understand,” she says.
“Thieves don’t bring things back.
How…?” She looks at the ring.
Then she looks at her face in the mirror.
Then she looks at the ring again.
“And why is there soap on it?” She telephones the police.
13 Next day, Zaza’s story is in all the newspapers.
‘OPERA STAR’S £1,000,000 RIN G IS SAFE’ says one.
‘THIEVES BRIN G BACK DUPONT DIAMOND’ says another.
‘NOW POLICE ASK, “WHY?”’ And there are lots of photos of Zaza with the White Star.
At the opera house.
Standing in front of the Eiffel Tower.
She looks very happy in all of them.
14 Marcel is happy, too.
Back on his boat he reads the newspaper stories.
Then he looks in the mirror.
There is a thin, red line on his neck.
“What a night!” he says.
After that, he washes, has breakfast and opens the window.
It is a beautiful, warm morning.
Marcel looks up at the blue sky and smiles.
“Now…” he thinks, “what’s going to happen today?” 15
Girl Meets Boy And suddenly there he was, this tall, quiet boy in a blue and white shirt .
I'll always remember the first time I saw him.
Donna is on a boat.
She is going to Spain with her family for a holiday.
On the boat she sees Mark, a tall, good-looking boy.
But Mark is very shy and he doesn't talk to her on the boat.
Who will help them to meet?
Will they be together?
He lives in London with his family.
Derek Strange writes books and stories for young people.
He has one son; his name is Mark.
In July 1993, Derek and Mark went to Spain on a boat for a holiday .
Donna's story My story starts in late July.
It was July 21st, I think.
It was the first day of our holiday, a hot July day.
I stood in the sun and looked at the sea.
I was on the boat at Portsmouth with my mother and father and my sister, Louise.
It was eleven o'clock in the morning.
Sea birds played near our big boat and the small boats near us on the sea.
5 I started to look at the people with us on our boat.
They all watched the sea birds and talked and laughed.
They were all happy on the first day of their holiday too.
And suddenly there he was, this tall, quiet boy in a blue and white shirt: he was really good-looking.
I'll always remember the first time I saw him.
He's lovely.
He didn't see me then.
He was with some friends.
One of the boys was his brother, I think: they had the same blue eyes, the same mouth and nose, nearly the same hair.
His brother and one of the boys with him tried to catch the sea birds and he smiled at them.
Then they came and stood near us, and they talked about the small boats on the sea.
I watched him over Louise's head all the time!
Then suddenly he looked at me and his eyes stayed quietly on me .
7 His brother and his friends made a lot of noise, but he was quiet and didn't talk a lot.
and he smiled his lovely smile with his shy blue eyes.
The people near me on the boat, the sun, the sea, the birds, the noise of his friends, time - it all stopped.
At that moment there was only him and me, me and him.
Him and his smile for me.
Only the two of us.
Slowly, very slowly, the boat started to move away, across the water to Spain.
It takes a day and a night on the boat from Portsmouth to Santander, in Spain.
A day and a night together, on the same boat with him .
Perhaps I can talk to him before we arrive there .
We'll be on this boat for a day and a night.
Perhaps I'll see him again this evening .
It was a big new boat with cafes, shops, a cinema and a disco.
In the evening Louise and 1 went to the disco together.
We had a Coke and listened to the music and watched the dancers.
But he wasn't there.
Then suddenly a tall boy in a black and white shirt came in — it was him!
He was with a friend.
They stopped and looked slowly at all the people in the disco.
It was dark in there and he stood and looked for a long time.
10 He's looking for me!
He wants to see me!
Then he saw me and he smiled a big, friendly smile.
I wanted to stand up and sing and dance .
dance with him.
He came across the room and stopped near our table .
and he asked me to dance!
Suddenly he wasn't shy with me.
We danced together for a long time after that.
11 Do you want to dance?
But then I looked up and there was a second tall boy in a blue and white shirt at the door of the disco, with the same eyes and the same mouth and nearly the same hair.
But the boy near the door had that nice, quiet, shy face — not a big, open, friendly smile.
Suddenly I knew: this was his brother with me on the dance-floor, not him!
I was with the wrong brother!
12 He stood for a moment near the door and watched me and his brother on the dance-floor with sad eyes.I wanted to run to him, to take his sad face in my hands and say 'sorry'.
He looked at me, then he went out quickly.
I stopped dancing, walked back to my table and sat down.
His brother started to dance with Louise.
I thought about him all the time, and listened to the noises of the boat and the sea.
13 I didn't sleep that night.
In the morning I went to the cafe at eight o'clock and waited there with my sister for a long time.
I wanted to say 'sorry' to him.
I had four cups of coffee, and I don't really like coffee.
But he didn't come.
Where was he?
Where was he?
14 At eleven o'clock we arrived in Santander.
I wanted to stop the boat: I wanted to stop the holiday; I wanted to go back to England.
I only wanted to see him again, to talk to him, to ask his name.
But he wasn't there.
15 Where are you?
I want to see you again.
Mark's story I started Spanish at school in September and I like it.
We've got a good teacher - Old Webb.'Mr Webb, notOld Webb,' my mother always says to me.
'He isn't old, you know.' Old Webb - sorry, Mr Webb - always takes some people from our school to a place in Spain for the first two weeks of the holidays, every July.
Old Webb is OK.
Not bad, for a teacher.
We were at Portsmouth with Old Webb - sorry, Mr Webb - and Mrs Webb.
She's from Argentina; all the boys think she's good-looking, too.
17 There were hundreds of people on the boat.
There were six of us with the Webbs: Harry Potts and his sister Sonia, Nick Atkins (he's a good friend), Sue Bellamy (she's clever), my brother Dave and me (we're fourteen and we're good friends too .
It was hot in the sun, a lovely day.
People watched the sea and the small boats.
Old Webb started one of his stories about Argentina, but I didn't listen.
I liked being in the sun and thinking about the two weeks holiday in Spain.
I started to look at the people.
And this girl was there, near me, a really good-looking girl with nice brown eyes and black hair.
She's nice.
I'm really shy and I'm not very good with girls.I didn't talk to her then, but I watched her with her sister and her mother and father.
And she's looking at me!
Then they walked away and she smiled at me fora moment before they went.
My brother Dave saw her, and he laughed quietly at my red face.
She's smiling at you .
and you re all red in the face - you're in love!
You're in love!
I wanted to see her again, perhaps in the cafe at lunch-time, or perhaps in the cinema in the afternoon.
But she wasn't there and I don't remember the film.
After that Dave and Harry went to the disco — they wanted to meet some girls.
In the evening we had a drink with Old Webb and Lovely Lucrezia (that's our name for Mrs Webb).
I don't like dancing, but I went to the disco later: I wanted to see her again, the lovely girl with the dancing brown eyes and the nice smile.
20 It was dark in the disco, and I stood near the door and watched the dancers.
Then I saw her on the dance-floor ..
and she was with Dave!
With my brother, Dave!
She smiled at him, too, a lovely smile.
I didn't want to watch; I walked out.
I went and looked at the sea and thought about things quietly.I thought about her, her and Dave.
I was up early in the morning, before six o'clock.
She's with Dave!
I went out again and watched the early morning sun and the sea.
There was only one old man and the sea birds there with me.
The old man smiled at me, but we didn't talk.
I liked being quiet.
I went in and had a coffee in the cafe, but I didn't want to eat.
All the time I wanted to see her.
I wanted her to walk into the cafe and come across to my table and sit down with me and tell me her name and talk to me.
But she didn't come.
I waited and waited, but she didn't come.
22 23 At eight o'clock I went to find Nick and Dave.
Dave was very quiet all day, and he was really nice to me.
And I didn't seeher again before we arrived in Santander at eleven.
Will she come?
She wasn't there.
The town's story Comillas is a small town fifty kilometres from Santander, near the sea.
In the town there are quiet streets of old buildings and there is a small square.
There are small shops and cafes with tables and chairs in the square, under the trees.
A lot of people from Madrid come to Comillas for their holidays, and a lot of people from England stay in the town too.
In the evenings in June and July and August people like to walk in the streets of Comillas.
They stop in the square and stand and talk together; their children 24 the children or read their newspapers or talk.
play together.
Some people sit at the cafe tables and have a drink and watch It was disco-night in Comillas on the evening after the boat arrived in Santander from Portsmouth.
There werea lot of people in the square — Spanish people from Comillas and Madrid, but families from England and France and Germany and Holland too.
Some of the English families from the boat were there now, in Comillas for a night or two.
25 26 Donna was there with her family, at a table under some trees.
Her eyes were on the dancers .
but she didn't see them; the music was in her ears .
but she didn't hear it.
She didn't want to look or listen or dance; she didn't want to be there.
I only want to see him again .
She only wanted to see the lovely, shy boy from the boat, perhaps to dance with him.
perhaps dance with him.
First Mr and Mrs Webb wanted to go to a little place near the beach where they always had good fish.
They wanted to have a good time on their first evening in Spain, and later there was the disco in the square at Comillas .
Let's go and eat at one of the places down near the beach.
Then we can go to the disco in the square at Comillas.
Mark didn't want to go.
He didn't want to eat or dance or talk and laugh.
He wanted to sit quietly and think about the good-looking girl on the boat.
Where was she now?
But Dave and Harry and Nick and Sue all wanted him to go .
They found a table at one of the cafes and they all sat down.
Later that evening he walked into the square at Comillas with his friends.
28 Mark looked slowly at the people at the tables near them .
Donna looked sadly at the people dancing and standing in the square .
then their eyes met.
He was here!
Time stopped.
She was here!
He smiled at her with his nice blue eyes.
She smiled back at him with her dark brown eyes.
Suddenly he wasn't shy.
He stood up and started to walk across to her .
she was on her feet.
Their hands met.
She wanted to dance now, only with him!
29 The others watched and smiled - they all knew.
Dave watched and smiled happily.
You see only Dave really knew the story.
Only Dave knew his plan for his brother.
And Donna and Mark started to dance.
They were together.
30 My plan worked, you see.
Mark is always really shy with girls and I wanted him to move, to get together with that girl.
That's why I wanted him to see us at the disco ...
to stop being shy with girls ...
A man there is pretending to be Peter.
This year things start to go wrong.
Brown Eyes‘A man is pretending to be me,’ I said.
‘Why?’Every year, Peter and Susan Reed go to Lea-on-Sea for their holiday; every year they stay at the Hotel Vista.
Is he friendly or dangerous — what does he want?
Will this, their thirteenth visit to Lea-on-Sea, be their last visit?
He has one son - his name is Joseph, and one daughter - her name is Anna.
Paul Stewart lives with his family in Brighton, and writes books for children and young people.
He was a teacher of English in Greece, Germany and Sri Lanka.
He went to Kenya, India, Australia, Malaysia, America and all over Europe, too - but never to Lea-on-Sea!
We arrived at our hotel in Lea-on-Sea early on Saturday morning.
The Hotel Vista.
Susan and I always stay there.
It is very quiet, very friendly and the food is good.
I opened the door, and we walked in.
‘Good morning, Mrs Brown,’ I said.
‘Mr and Mrs Reed,’ she said.
5‘Cup of coffee?’ she said.
‘It’s good to see you again.’ ‘It’s good to be here again,’ I said.
‘Before you go up to your room.’ ‘Thank you,’ I said.
‘Where’s little Mary?’ asked Susan.
Mary was Mrs Brown’s daughter.
‘She’s in the garden,’ said Mrs Brown and laughed.
Mary’s a tall young woman now.‘How old is she?’ Susan asked.
‘But she’s not little!
‘Fifteen,’ said Mrs Brown.
‘Fifteen!’ I said.
‘Time goes quickly!’ ‘1 know,’ said Mrs Brown.
‘Now, coffee!
Before I forget again.’ She walked to the kitchen.6Susan looked at me.
‘I love it here, Peter,’ she said.
‘I know,’ I said.
‘When did we first meet?’ she asked.
‘Eleven years ago?
‘It’ll be thirteen years on Tuesday,’ I said.
Twelve?’ ‘Wrong,’ I said.
‘In the cafe.’ ‘Ah, yes,’ said Susan, and shut her eyes.
7The door opened, and Mary Brown looked in.
She was tall.
‘And hello again,’ she said to me.
‘Hello,’ she said to Susan.
‘Again?’ I said.
Don’t you remember?
You said “hello” in the bank.’ ‘Oh, y.
Yesterday.
yes!’ I said, and pretended to remember.
‘That was you!’ Mary smiled.
‘I’ll see you later,’ she said.
‘Goodbye!’ ‘Goodbye,’ we said.
She shut the door.
Susan turned to me.
“Why did you pretend?’ she asked me.
‘I don’t know,’ I said.
After lunch, Susan and I walked down to the sea.
8 The sun was hot in the afternoon.
The water was cold.
After that, we walked across to Connor’s Coffee House.
It was a small, quiet café near the sea.
The place Susan and I first met.
I opened the door and looked in.
We went back there every year.
John Connor smiled.
‘Hello again!’ he said to me.
9 10 11 It was our fourth night at the Hotel Vista.
We were at a table in the restaurant, but I did not want to eat.
I was afraid.
Very afraid.
Things were not right in Lea- on-Sea.
On Sunday, it was the old On Monday, the man in man in the newspaper shop.
the bank .
and the woman in the Yesterday, the girl in the cinema.shoe shop.
And this afternoon, the woman in the Italian restaurant.
All of them smiled at me and said, ‘Hello again!’12‘A man is pretending to be me,’ I said.
‘Why?’ ‘I don’t know,’ said Susan.
‘But it’s not important.
.’ ‘Not important?’ I shouted.
‘Ithink it is.
I’m going to the police!’ ‘No,’ said Susan.
‘They’ll laugh at you.
We’ll find the man.
Lea-on-Sea isn’t very big.
It’ll be easy.’ I looked down.
I didn’t want to meet the man!
Susan looked into my eyes.
She took my hand.
3Later that evening, we walked down to the sea.
‘I’m afraid, too,’ she said.
The sun was red and yellow.
The water was light blue.
‘Today is an important day,’ said Susan.
‘Important?’ I said.
‘Thirteen years,’ she said.
‘You and me!
Did you forget?’ ‘I?
Yes, I forgot,’ I said quietly.
‘Do you love me?’ Susan asked.
‘Oh, yes,’ I said, and turned to her.
‘I love you, too.’ We kissed.
‘Good,’ she said.
And for the first time on our holiday, I was happy!
14Suddenly, Susan moved back.
‘Look!’ she was right.
‘It’s him!
At the café!’ She was right.
There was a man with a big nose and black hair.
He shut the café door and turned right.
At the cinema, he turned right again, and walked quickly away.
‘Run!’ said Susan.
‘We don’t want to lose him.’ We arrived at the cinema and looked down the road.
‘Where is he?’ I said.
‘There!’ said Susan.
I saw him turn left at the bank.
‘Quickly!’ I shouted.
15 We ran across the road after the man.
‘Don’t go!’ I shouted.
But he didn’t hear me.
We ran to the bank.
There, we stopped.
I looked up and down the road.
The man was not there.
‘Where is he?’ I said.
‘I don’t know,’ said Susan.
‘But we’ll see him again.
I know we will.
Come on,’ she said.
‘We’ll have a drink at the hotel.’ 16We walked back to the Hotel Vista slowly.
Susan looked in the cafés and restaurants but she didn’t see the man again.
‘Perhaps we’ll never see him again,’ I said.
‘Perhaps,’ said Susan quietly.
We arrived at the door of the hotel at ten o’clock.
We heard the television.
We walked in.
We saw Mrs Brown, but she didn’t see us.
‘Sleeping,’ I said.
1718 19 I walked over to the bed.
On it, face down, was a photograph.
Who was the picture of?
I was afraid to look.
I took the photograph in my hand and slowly turned it over.
‘What the .
?’ I shouted.
‘Can I see?’ ‘You can,’ I said.
‘What is it?’ said Susan.
‘But it isn’t good!’ I gave her the photo.
Susan looked at it, and jumped back.
‘But it’s you and me!’ she said.
It was Susan and me.
20‘I know,’ I said, and looked again.
Down at the sea.
‘That man!’ said Susan, excitedly.
‘He was there.
It’s his photo!’ Suddenly, we heard a noise.
The door opened.
And there he was, the man with my face.
And he had a gun in his hand.‘Very clever!’ he said quietly.
‘It was me.’ He shut the door.
‘Don’t move,’ he said.
‘Or I’ll shoot.’21I looked at the man in horror.
I wasn’t afraid of his gun - I was afraid of his face!
He had my nose, my mouth, my ears, my hair .
22 23 ‘You know him!’ I said.
‘Yes,’ Susan answered.
‘His name is Stephen Griggs.
I worked with him fifteen years ago.’ ‘I loved you,’ said the man.
‘We were happy.’‘You’re a bad woman, Susan Barker,’ he said.
‘You pretended to love me.’ ‘I did not!
And my name is Reed now.’ ‘Stay back!’ he shouted.
Susan stopped.
‘Those cold brown eyes,’ she said.
‘Ugh!’24 ‘Did he always have my face?’ I asked.
‘No,’ said Susan.
‘I don’t know the game he’s playing.’ ‘You will,’ said the man.
‘You will.’ He looked at the photograph in my hand.
‘That’s for you,’ he said.
‘You can look at it, and remember.’ ‘Remember what?’ I said.
‘Your last walk with Susan,’ he said.
He smiled.
‘Before you go to prison.’ 25‘Prison?’ I said.
‘Why?’ Because youshot Susan,’ hesaid ‘I didn’t .
.’ ‘You will,’ he said.
‘Watch!’ And he turned and put the gun to Susan’s head.
‘NOOOOOO!’ I shouted, and jumped at him.
The man shot.
I shutmy eyes.
When I lookedagain, Susan was on the floor.
Dead.Then, suddenly, the man turned and hit me on the head.
It all wentblack — and I fell down, down, down.26After some time, I opened my eyes again.
I remembered.
‘You shot her!’ I said.
‘No,’ the man smiled - with my smile!
‘Youshot her.
My plan is going very well.’ I tried to get up, but it was difficult.
‘I loved her,’ I said, quietly.
‘I, too,’ he said.
‘But she was with you.
All those years.
‘Do you plan to shoot me, too?’ I said.
.’ He smiled again and looked at the gun.
27‘Oh, no,’ he said.
‘I said, you’re going to prison.
Perhaps there, you’ll understand.
For me, Susan was dead before I shot her.
Now she’s dead for you, too.’ He came over to me, and put his hand over my mouth.
Then I heard Mrs Brown at the door.
‘What are you doing in there?’ she shouted.
mmwff!’ I said.
‘I shot Susan!’ the man answered for me.
‘And now she’s dead.
Oh, Susan, I’m sorry!’ 28‘There,’ he said.
‘Now she’ll phone the police.
And they’ll come — for you!’ He walked over to the window and looked out.
‘Remember,’ I said.
‘You’ve got my face, too.’ ‘Not for long,’ he said.
In horror, I watched him slowly take the mask from his face.
‘Now there’s only one PeterReed again.
You!’ ‘But.
.’ ‘Oh, and one more thing.
Here you are .
.’ Before I knew it, the gun was in my hand!
‘You can give it to the police ‘ he laughed.
29 I watched the door.
It opened and four policemen walked in.
They looked at the dead woman.
They looked at the gun in my hand.
The first policeman walked over to me.
‘You come with us,’ he said.
‘I didn’t ...
It isn’t ...
.’ I said.
I didn’t want to go to prison.
‘Come with us,’ he said again.
‘You can talk later.
We’ve got all night.’ 30
Now he is in London.
Jake arrives at Euston station in London.
Jake is eighteen years old and he lives with his family.
It is a holiday weekend and it is his first time away from Manchester.
He is very happy.
He stops and looks at his map.
'I can go to the Notting Hill Carnival and I can see some interesting places from the bus too,' he thinks.
Jake is sitting on a red London bus behind a big family.
The children are standing at the windows.
They are looking for famous places.
There's Madame Tussaud's!
'We're going to the carnival.' 'They're going to Notting Hill too,' Jake thinks.
Can we go there?' 'Not today,' their mother answers.
Suddenly, he sees some people in costumes.
2 It is a hot afternoon and Jake is sitting on a bench in Notting Hill.
They have balloons and drams in their hands.
'Does the carnival start here?' Jake asks Mel, a girl in a green dress.
'Yes, near here.
Look at the floats!' she says.
'Listen to the music!
The procession is starting.' ÁSuddenly, a tall girl runs to the first float.
Her costume is yellow and red and she has feathers in her hair.
The young men on the float shout to her.
'Quickly, Maria!
You're late!' 'Sorry - a little problem with my job,' she says.
'But it's OK now.' The band moves slowly down the street.
4 Jake looks at the beautiful tall girl in her carnival costume.
Their eyes meet and she smiles at him.
Suddenly, he knows.
It's love!
Jake's new friends are standing and waiting for him.
But he walks away from them.
He can only see Maria.
Mel talks to Jake but he doesn't hear her.
She looks at Maria and she understands.
5 The carnival procession moves down the street.
On the floats people are dancing to the music.
Some people in the street are dancing too.
There is a lot of music, noise and colour.
lake is running but there are crowds of people near him.
He can't stay with Maria's float.
How can he meet this beautiful girl?
Who is she?
¸Maria looks down and sees Jake again.
He has a friendly face and she likes him too.
'I'm Jake.
'Hi, Jake!
What's your name?' he shouts.
I'm Maria,' she answers.
'Can I telephone you?
What's your number?\ She gives a big smile.
But )ake ean't hear her!
The band is playing and people are shouting.
7 The procession goes near a street cafe.
People are drinking coffee at tables on the street.
A tourist is standing on a chair.
He is making a film of the carnival.
Jake sees a camera on the table.
His wife is watching him.
He wants a photograph of Maria.
He takes the camera and runs quickly after the float.
I want a photo!
There are crowds of people in the street and Jake can't see Maria now.
Smile, please!' 8 The procession is moving slowly.
He tries the first street.
'I can run down a quiet street and find her float,' he thinks.
Suddenly, he hears the music from the band.
He is near the procession now.
He sees Maria's float and shouts, 'Maria!
I'm here!' She sees him and she waves.
9 The tourist finds a policeman.
'A young man in a red T-shirt - he has my camera!' he says.
'Yes, I understand.
But wait...
Can you see him now?' 'It's very difficult in this crowd.
yes, I can see him!
There he is!' Jake is standing on a bench.
That's him and that's my camera!' 10 Jake puts his photograph of Maria in his pocket.
He is happy now.
'Come down, young man,' the policeman says.
The policeman and the tourist run to him.
'Is that your camera?' 'No, it's my camera,' the man says.
Jake's face is red.
Now he has a problem.
'Sorry, I only want one photo.
Here's your camera.' 11 'I'm very sorry,' Jake says.
'I never do this.' Jake thinks of his mother and he is very unhappy.
The tourists think of their son and suddenly they are unhappy too.
'We have our camera now,' they say.
'He isn't a bad boy.
Please, can he go?' 'No, I can't do that,' the policeman says.
a map, a pen, £5.73, a train ticket.
12 Jake is standing in front of a police sergeant.
Is that all?' 'Let's see this important photo,' the first policeman says.
Jake takes the photo from his back pocket and gives it to the sergeant.
The sergeant looks at the photograph for a long time.
13 'Where's Policewoman Day?' the sergeant asks.
He is surprised.
'She's at the doctor's,' a policewoman says.
'Now, in your pockets you have ...
'No, she's here again now,' a policeman says.
'Do you want her?' 'Yes.
Send her in.
We have a problem.' The policeman walks to the door and says, 'Please come in, Policewoman Day.' 14 The policemen look at the photo and they smile.
Jake doesn't understand.
The door opens and Policewoman Day comes in.
She looks at Jake.
He looks at her.
They are very surprised.
'It's you!' they say at the same time.
'Look at this photo, Maria,' the sergeant says.
'Here you are at the doctor's - or perhaps the carnival?' 
